Well we're coming along with the sculpting here.
I think I'd like to work a little more on the torso today.
Let's take a look at the abdominal muscles here on the front of the character for this once again I'll
use the same kind of technique I'll mask out the area that we want to sculpt and then build it up from
there.
So the area that I'd like to sculpt I think let's take a look here.
I think I'd like to mask out from the bottom of the rib cage here and around in here all the way down.
Right down into here.
Something like that.
And then I'll just fill it in here.
Now press control and invert that.
Now I want to fill it in here from.
So that from the side.
Kind of fills in here and then dips back right at the pelvis.
I'm also going to I think I'm going to get rid of that arm it's going to be in the way here I'll press
h and drag so like that to hide it I'll go ahead and do that for the other arm as well.
And we go so I'll go back to my clay strips brush with the three key and let's come in here and start
building out the form I'm going to reduce the strength a bit.
And just begin building this out just a little bit at a time.
And I'm just trying to keep an eye on it from the side here as I go.
I wanted to kind of bulge out from here and kind of have at its peak around at the top of the pelvis.
There we go.
So as you can see it's bulging out just a bit until the top of the pelvis and that's kind of the way
I think it should be.
So now we have the basic form of the abdomen.
Now what I'd like to do is build up the six pack abs on him.
So what I'm going to do is once again mask those off the first I'll come down here to hide mask and
I'll clear the mask with Allt M. and we go now I'm going to come in and mask off the areas for that
six pack abs.
So I'll come over here to the mask brush and now these He's kind of tall and thin I've kind of got an
elongated torso on them but we can work with that.
I think I'm going to begin here maybe kind of angled this down just a bit.
Bring it down and just so it's just below the rib cage there and then kind of angle it and zoom in a
bit.
I'm going to press control and erase that area just a bit.
And then mask this area here.
Kind of tilting down again.
This way.
And
this area right in here is where the navel will probably go.
And then on down here to the bottom of this abdomen area
and bring that around like that so let's see how this works.
So I'll fill them in and then we'll try it.
So press control I need to invert the mask and I'll go back to my clay strips brush and add a pretty
low strength.
I'm going to try it pretty low here.
I'm going to start laying down some forms here.
Raises strength just a hair.
Maybe I'll flatten this just a bit.
So what I'm going to try now is I'm going to try and invert this mask just for a minute here and then
I'm going to come in and try and cut it in just a little bit in between holding the control key down.
I'm going to try and cut in between these.
See if that helps at all and then control the inverse to invert them again.
And now come back and do a little bit more here.
All right let's see how this works someone press Allt him to clear the mask.
And we're getting there.
Maybe add a little bit more in now that I can see the whole thing.
Ultimately we will be adding more subdivisions here so that we can get more detailed but I'm purposefully
trying to keep it fairly low resolution so that I have to deal with just the basic forms and not deal
with the fine details quite yet.
All right so now I'm also going to begin filling in some of the forms in between the major muscle groups
here just to fill it out just a little bit so I can see how it's going to play here.
Now let's take a look at building out the forms of the LAT's on the back of the torso and underneath
the arms here.
It's really a big triangle that goes kind of from the one under-armed to the other and then down here
to the base of the spine.
So what I'm going to do is press the H key and I'm going to hide the arms for now that and this and
then I want to mask out the general form so I go back to my mask brush reduce the size a bit with the
F key and what I'm going to do is begin kind of up here and go underneath the scapula.
So I'll begin here and go down underneath the scapula here and I want to come up here to the underarm
and I want to come back out of the underarm just kind of right from the middle of that and then come
back down here to the base of the spine.
Something like this.
All right so just like before I press control I need to invert that go back to the clay brush.
And what I want to do is build up from the spine out.
So I kind of want to build up like this.
So it builds up going outward from the spine.
And also I'm going I'm going to build up this area underneath the arms
right now going to go ahead and clear the mask with him and I'm going to try and kind of incorporate
this into the shape of the character a little better I better bring back those arms to bring back old
age to bring back the arms.
And I'd like to just build this out a little bit more so it blends in with the rest of the forms.
And for this area over the scapula I think I now need to go ahead and lay down some form over that some
skin and muscle over that bone there like that.
Once again kind of incorporating the forms together just a little bit more as we go.
So now we've got the lats under the arms here and that triangular shape in the back.
Once again we will need to incorporate it more with the other parts of the body but still we're beginning
to block in the general forms of our character here.
We should begin working on the forearms and lower legs here and the next video I really want to emphasize
the importance of beginning with the rough forms first and keeping the model at a fairly low resolution
while you get the basic silhouette of the character.
So we've still got quite a bit of work to do maybe even scaling and read proportioning of the character
once all the major muscle groups are in.
So it's important to get through this stage before we begin dealing with any of the fine details and
even building out the character's clothes or armor or anything like that.